Hi, I'm Misko Hevery, CTO at Builder.io.
I guess I'm known for
this thing called AngularJS.
And now I do this new
framework called Quick.
I guess the first question you should be
asking yourself is, why should we test?
And I'm kind of curious,
from the audience, what you will say?
>> Testing confirms that your
code works as you expect it to.
>> Okay.
>> And it also enables refactoring.
You know why I test, because I'm lazy,
>> [LAUGH]
>> And it's not a joke.
I'm kidda serious about
this particular thing.
I want you to kind of think of testing
as the path of least resistance, right?
Testing isn't something that,
it's extra thing.
It's not a good hygiene of, you should
brush your teeth cuz it's good for you,
but really nobody wants to do it.
You should think of testing as actually,
it makes my life easier.
And to get to that point of
where it makes your life easier,
we'll talk about it, how do we get there.
But on the end of the day,
you wanna get in a situation where doing
the easiest thing is actually
the right thing, right?
So you wanna set up your environment,
you wanna set up whatever you need
to do in order to have the situation
where the easiest thing to do,
the most lazy things to do I can get
away with is actually the thing.
>> We have some responses from
online if you want me to read.
>> Yeah, yeah, go for it.
>> Testing reveals problems.
>> Yeah.
>> Enables more stable,
maintainable code base and scalability.
>> Yep, so
I think those are all correct statements.
They do kind of fall into this
righteousness mode of like,
you should do testing because of all these
benefits, and these benefits are true.
But I wanna also point out that we at
the end of the day are humans, right?
And we will always do
the easiest thing for us.
When you're under time pressure and
you wanna cut corners and
that happens all the time, you wanna make
sure that your laziness is your friend and
it's actually the path
of least resistance.
And so people kind of already
pointed this out, right?
You have all these benefits
from improved code quality,
increase productivity,
team collaboration, confidence, etc.
These are all valid things.
Let's kind of zoom into some of them,
improve code quality, right?
You wanna detect your
bugs as soon as possible.
One thing that I think is important
in terms of testing is that you get
the confidence to refactor.
And I think this is super,
super important, right?
As the code grows,
you start with the best intentions, but
it doesn't always work
out the way you want.
You forgot some constraint or
something like that, and so
you wanna be able to refactor the code and
move things around.
And moving things around is scary,
especially if it's a code
base that is not yours.
If you come into a new project and
it's a code base that is not yours,
you don't know where the swamps are,
you don't know where the scary bits are.
And so to be able to ask somebody to
do refactorings is actually extremely
difficult without the confidence knowing
that you have tests to cover your back.
And so what typically happens is
that you come to a project and
you're like, I see that there's a problem,
I should refactor it.
But do I really wanna take that risk
of like, I do some refactoring,
and as a result, it will make things,
I'll have to go and
bug fix something forever, right?
And so a lot of people don't take that
risk, which is actually the complete
opposite of what you want, because now
your solution isn't the proper solution.
Your solution is some hack that you
place in place to fix your problem.
But actually made the overall
problem worse, right?
So refactoring confidence is actually
a super, super important thing.
The other thing is, to me,
tests are a form of code documentation,
right?
We all know we should write documentation,
but
we also know that that doesn't
really happen in real life, right?
It's one of those things that
we don't ever have time for.
But tests are actually, in my opinion,
better than documentation because they're
documentation that's executable, right?
That is verifiable,
that you know that is true.
And so the way I think about testing is,
as a human, right, I can only keep so
many things in my head.
People say it's about seven things, you
can argue what the actual number is, but
it's just some small single digit number.
And if you can can keep only a few things
in your head, then the question then
becomes, how do I make sure that
I can use those seven things or
whatever I have on something useful
that I wanna actually make progress in?
And so you don't want to use up all of
these extra slots in your memory, so
to speak, for remembering like, this
thing needs to be true about the system,
that thing and the other thing, right?
You just wanna focus
on writing your thing.
And so what you do is you take all
of these things that should be true,
these assertions,
these statements about the system, and
you codify them in the form of a test,
right?
So that when you go and refactor or
move things around or change things,
the tests are there to kinda
remind you of saying like,
hey, you said that this should be true and
this is no longer true.
And if you think about it, that is really
good point of view from the documentation.
Now, the other thing I wanna talk
about is team collaboration.
If you come to a project and
there are no tests,
how do you gain the knowledge
of the project, right?
You will have a really hard time trying
to figuring out what things are, and you
typically we'll learn by kind of breaking
things, which is not useful for anybody.
And so to me, tests are a great
way of doing collaboration because
they codify all of these expected
things inside of the test.
And so it's a form of communication.
You can point people to do it.
Now, let me just pause here for
a second, let me back up a second and
talk about humans.
So one of my favorite books is
called Thinking Fast and Slow.
If you haven't read it,
I highly recommend it.
I call it the user manual for your brain.
So if you have a brain,
you should read the user manual,
that's the user manual for it.
Anyways, in the book, the guy makes a very
good point that humans are not very
good about being told generalization and
expecting them to know how to apply it.
Instead, what humans
are really good at is,
I'm gonna give you a bunch of examples and
then you will generalize it for
yourself, and
then you will know how to apply it, right?
And so what tests are, are actually that.
Tests are a whole bunch of examples,
where I say, look,
it should work this way,
it should do this.
These are a whole bunch of concrete
examples that I'm giving you about
the system.
And then when you read these tests,
then you can be like, I can now generalize
it into what the thing is actually doing.
The opposite is something
humans are not good at, right?
So if I just give you a generalization and
expect you to come up with examples,
that doesn't work.
But giving examples and expecting you to
come up with generalization is something
that does work, Mark.
>> Steven online said,
as a team lead in architect,
I really feel like the team
collaboration gets overlooked a lot.
Tests have had the biggest impact on
collaboration in my years of experience.
>> Yeah, and I totally agree with that.
The other useful thing about tests and
teams is that a lot of times
people need to fix a bug, right?
And so the way you can collaborate is,
there's stuck, they don't know what to do.
And so what you can ask them
to do is say like, look,
just write me a test that demonstrates
this particular problem, right?
And then once you have a test, you can
actually use that as a way to share and
collaborate with your teammates.
You can basically take that PR and
send it to your team and then says, hey,
I'm trying to fix this,
how would I go about it, right?
It's not some vague thing
that is hard to explain.
It's a concrete scenario that
you can get under a debugger and
you can look on thread and so on.
So yeah, team collaboration is super,
super important.
We kind of already talked
about productivity, right?
But mainly the thing I wanna show you and
we will talk about as an example is that,
you wanna be in a situation where
tests are so easy to write and
execute that it is by far the simplest
thing for you to do, right?
This is the scenario you
wanna get yourself into.
And if it's the simplest thing for
you to do, of course,
you're gonna do it because it's
the path of least resistance.
Now, as far as confidence goes, yeah,
that is the obvious things of reducing
the risk, better user experience,
peace of mind, etc.
But I really wanna point out
the importance of feeling like you have
control over your code base.
What I mean by that is just
the importance of knowing that you can
go to your code base, move stuff around,
and come out victorious, right?
Because the last thing you want is to
just go in, try to fix something, and
instead of fixing it you get
punished by breaking everything.
And you either cannot
push it to production or
worse you push it to production
all hell breaks loose.
And now you wanna roll it back, but
you can't because other people
have put stuff on top of it.
It's a situation you don't wanna get
into because it will just destroy your
confidence to do something in the future.
So in order to have a malleable piece of
code base, you really wanna have tests.
And tests, as I said, are form of
documentations, but it's also a form of
essentially just generic statements of
what should be true about the world.
And more of these statements you have,
the easier time you're
gonna have with the tests.
And so I'm gonna hammer this down over and
over again.
But the biggest thing is you need
to set up your environment so
that writing and running tests is
easier than running the application.
And there are many situations if you think
about it, if I wanna run an application,
that's actually kinda tricky, right?
Because you have to launch it,
you probably have to have
some database somewhere.
Now you are probably on the login screen,
you have to log yourself in,
get to a specific page like a settings
page where you wanna find the bug.
You push a bunch of buttons,
something breaks, you need to get it on
the debugger, then you wanna change
some piece of code and you go back in.
And what do you do the whole thing again,
you log in, go to the settings page.
By the time you recover
where you used to be,
you kinda lost in your memory what
you're trying to debug, right?
So you wanna be able to be in
a situation where like, hey,
let me just write a quick test.
Like, I am going to pull up a settings
page and I'm gonna do the scenario and
look it's failing in this particular way.
And then I can debug it and
I can go around focusing on a problem
rather than focusing on a problem of, how
do I get the application in the correct
state to demonstrate the problem, right?
Because every time you restart
the application, you have to, again,
go through a bunch of steps to get it
into the problematic state, right?
And so, again,
you wanna be in a situation where,
writing the test is actually
the easier thing for you to do, right?
You cannot force testing on
an organization by calling on these
high-level things of, like,
you're gonna have a better time, or
it's the right thing to do, or whatever.
Those are all nice, but
nothing beats just being lazy.
And I kind of talked about it, but
let's kind of talk about it some more,
which is that, to me, tests really
reduce the cognitive load, right?
Because they minimize the number of
things I have to keep in my mind.
If something needs to be always true, and
I can demonstrate it in form of a test,
that means I can no longer
have to think about it, right?
And as I create more and more of these
tests, there are fewer and fewer things I
need to keep in mind because if I
break one of those assumptions,
the system will tell me, right?
And that's really what it comes
down to because as humans,
there's limited number of
things we can keep track of.
And the other thing I kind of wanna
point out is that a lot of times in
organization, things go bad.
And people tend to have this thing of,
let's blame somebody or
let's blame something, right?
And people often come to be like,
you didn't do this or x or
something like that.
And I think that's not useful.
Because at the end of the day, you can't
have a million things that you expect
the developer to do,
that's just not scalable.
At some point,
you should just say like, there's only one
thing that the developer has to do, and
that one thing is automated,
which is running the test, right?
As long as the test say it's okay,
then you haven't forgotten anything.
So you can't have a situation where you
put the responsibility of remembering
to check the boxes or do bunch of things
on a developer because first of all,
developers leave and come, so you
always have a new influx of developers.
But also there's a limited number
of checklists that you can have as
a developer before this
becomes not scalable.
And so instead, you really wanna offload
this work somewhere else, right?
And it comes down to the cognitive
load of the developer, right?
You wanna make sure that the developer
doesn't have to think about it.
Or to put it differently, the developer
has limited capacity to do stuff, and
you wanna make sure that you use as
much of the capacity as possible for
the problem at hand, which is for
the business logic or for
whatever you're trying to achieve, right?
And you're trying to offload
all of these secondary
things because the more the developer
has to keep in their heads,
the less there is left over
to actually do useful work.